Visual Studio
Visual Studio has an advantage when it comes to programming. This IDE is mostly used by corporate programmers to produce .NET code. 
Sometimes people want to try the product without investing thousands of dollars first, so Microsoft has the Express editions for all of their products.
This makes it perfect for casual users that want to hack out some code as a hobby or programmers who need a free solution to code in C#. Be warned though,
if the application developed by someone using the express versions of Visual Studio takes off and starts making money it would not be surprising
to see big brother step in and start asking questions.





Eclipse
his is the best alternative if you are not a big fan of Microsoft’s Visual Studio. The interface is a lot cleaner and concise than Visual Studio and the languages
that are possible to use extend past the .Net Framework. Besides being the number on way to develop Android applications via the Android SDK, it is fully extensible
to use languages such as Ruby, C, C++ and many many more.he languages mentioned above are not limited by Microsoft and anyone is free to develop plug-ins for different
languages and to make the development environment easier to use. Also, the ability to use this on Linux is a great sway for many people who don’t like to be bound by Microsoft’s operating systems
and like full control of their OS.






Netbeans
he is the number one alternative to Eclipse. This program is extensible and free, and it compiles code which is a bonus. When installing Netbeans it comes with a Java server called GlassFish that you
could deploy on your computer for your testing environment. This server is the second biggest server for Java next to WebSphere (which is a whole different ball game).gain, extensibility is a must have
for the development environments out there to survive. Instead of having multiple programs for multiple different languages combining them into one program gains recognition from developers and the
software programs that combine it all but the kitchen sink are utilized more often because of the simplicity and ease of access to the languages developers want.



Code::Blocks
Code::Blocks is a free C, C++ and Fortran IDE built to meet the most demanding needs of its users. It is designed to be very extensible and fully configurable.
n open-source cross-platform C/C++ IDE written in wxWidgets. Its pluggable architecture enables it to be extended easily by the use of external plugins
(most of its functionality is provided by plugins). Supported compilers are GNU GCC, MS Visual C++ Free Toolkit 2003, Digital Mars, and Borland C++ Compiler 5.5.




CodeLite
CodeLite is an open source, free, cross platform IDE for the C/C++ programming languages which runs best on all major Platforms ( OSX, Windows and Linux )
Written with wxWidgets and released under the GPL license. Features context sensitive help, auto-completion, refactoring, and a full debugging GUI. 
CodeLite is based on plugins so it can be extended very easily.