1. C#
C Sharp
Pronounced "C-sharp," C# is a multi-paradigm language developed by Microsoft as part of its .NET initiative.
Combining principles from C and C++, C# is a general-purpose language used to develop software for Microsoft and Windows platforms.
C# is intended to be a simple, modern, general-purpose, object-oriented programming language.
Although C# applications are intended to be economical with regard to memory and processing power requirements, the language
was not intended to compete directly on performance and size with C or assembly language.




2. Java
Java is a class-based, object-oriented programming language developed by Sun Microsystems in the 1990s.
It's one of the most in-demand programming languages, a standard for enterprise software, web-based content, games and mobile apps,
as well as the Android operating system. Java is designed to work across multiple software platforms, meaning a program written
on Mac OS X, for example, could also run on Windows.Java applications are typically compiled to bytecode that can run on any
 Java virtual machine (JVM) regardless of computer architecture.Java uses an automatic garbage collector to manage memory in the object lifecycle.





3. C Language
C Language
A general-purpose, imperative programming language developed in the early '70s, C is the oldest and most widely used language,
providing the building blocks for other popular languages, such as C#, Java, JavaScript and Python.
C is mostly used for implementing operating systems and embedded applications.Like most imperative languages in the ALGOL tradition,
C has facilities for structured programming and allows lexical variable scope and recursion, while a static type system prevents many unintended operations.
In C, all executable code is contained within subroutines, which are called "functions" (although not in the strict sense of functional programming).
Function parameters are always passed by value. Pass-by-reference is simulated in C by explicitly passing pointer values.
C program source text is free-format, using the semicolon as a statement terminator and curly braces for grouping blocks of statements.




4. C++
C Plus Plus
C++ is an intermediate-level language with object-oriented programming features, originally designed to enhance the C language.
C++ powers major software like Firefox, Winamp and Adobe programs. It's used to develop systems software, application software,
high-performance server and client applications and video games.




5. Python
Python is a high-level, server-side scripting language for websites and mobile apps.
It's considered a fairly easy language for beginners due to its readability and compact syntax, meaning developers can use fewer
 lines of code to express a concept than they would in other languages. It powers the web apps for Instagram,
Pinterest and Rdio through its associated web framework, Django, and is used by Google, Yahoo! and NASA.ython interpreters are available for installation
on many operating systems, allowing Python code execution on a wide variety of systems. Using third-party tools,
such as Py2exe or Pyinstaller,[24] Python code can be packaged into stand-alone executable programs for some of the most popular operating
systems, allowing for the distribution of Python-based software for use on those environments without requiring the 
installation of a Python interpreter.
CPython, the reference implementation of Python, is free and open-source software and has a community-based development model, as do nearly 
all of its alternative implementations. CPython is managed by the non-profit Python Software Foundation.